README.md, before:

# Automatic subtitles in your videos

This repository uses `ffmpeg` and [OpenAI's Whisper](https://openai.com/blog/whisper) to automatically generate and overlay subtitles on any video.

## Installation

To get started, you'll need Python 3.7 or newer. Install the binary by running the following command:

    pip install git+https://github.com/m1guelpf/auto-subtitle.git

You'll also need to install [`ffmpeg`](https://ffmpeg.org/), which is available from most package managers:

```bash
# on Ubuntu or Debian
sudo apt update && sudo apt install ffmpeg

# on MacOS using Homebrew (https://brew.sh/)
brew install ffmpeg

# on Windows using Chocolatey (https://chocolatey.org/)
choco install ffmpeg
```

## Usage

The following command will generate a `subtitled/video.mp4` file contained the input video with overlayed subtitles.

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 -o subtitled/

The default setting (which selects the `small` model) works well for transcribing English. You can optionally use a bigger model for better results (especially with other languages). The available models are `tiny`, `tiny.en`, `base`, `base.en`, `small`, `small.en`, `medium`, `medium.en`, `large`.

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 --model medium

Adding `--task translate` will translate the subtitles into English:

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 --task translate

Run the following to view all available options:

    auto_subtitle --help

## License

This script is open-source and licensed under the MIT License. For more details, check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

Commit message:

updated readme for deepL guide

README.md, after:

# Automatic subtitles in your videos

This repository uses `ffmpeg` and [OpenAI's Whisper](https://openai.com/blog/whisper) to automatically generate and overlay subtitles on any video.

## Installation

To get started, you'll need Python 3.7 or newer. Install the binary by running the following command:

    pip install git+https://github.com/m1guelpf/auto-subtitle.git

You'll also need to install [`ffmpeg`](https://ffmpeg.org/), which is available from most package managers:

```bash
# on Ubuntu or Debian
sudo apt update && sudo apt install ffmpeg

# on MacOS using Homebrew (https://brew.sh/)
brew install ffmpeg

# on Windows using Chocolatey (https://chocolatey.org/)
choco install ffmpeg
```

## Usage

The following command will generate a `subtitled/video.mp4` file contained the input video with overlayed subtitles.

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 -o subtitled/

The default setting (which selects the `small` model) works well for transcribing English. You can optionally use a bigger model for better results (especially with other languages). The available models are `tiny`, `tiny.en`, `base`, `base.en`, `small`, `small.en`, `medium`, `medium.en`, `large`.

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 --model medium

Adding `--task translate` will translate the subtitles into English:

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 --task translate

Run the following to view all available options:

    auto_subtitle --help

## Translate subtitle using DeepL API

For translation features, you must set the DEEPL_AUTH_KEY environment variable with your DeepL API authentication key:

    export DEEPL_AUTH_KEY='your_deepl_auth_key_here'

Add this line to your .bashrc, .zshrc, or equivalent shell configuration file to make the setting persistent.

To translate the subtitles into another language using DeepL API, use the --translate_subtitles flag and specify the target language with --translation_language:

    auto_subtitle /path/to/video.mp4 --translate_subtitles True --translation_language zh

## License

This script is open-source and licensed under the MIT License. For more details, check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.
